Mortadha Ben Younes
Industrial engineering student
mortadha.benyounes@etudiant-enit.utm.tn

29601722

Tunis, Tunisia

linkedin.com/in/mortadha-ben-younes-enit

SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS
Highly motivated Industrial Engineering student with a dual qualification in energy systems and
economics, and a strong academic and research background in supply chain optimization and datadriven decision-making.
Proven background in energy optimization and techno-economic solutions, from renewable energy
system sizing to feasibility and simulation-based studies across the energy value chain.
Strong analytical skills in mathematical modeling and system simulation, with a focus on rigor across
research and industrial projects.
Excellent organizational and time-management skills, demonstrated through various academic and
professional projects.
•

•

•

•

EDUCATION
International Master Program on Renewable Energy Systems for Africa – TEchnology And
Management (dual enrollement)
National Engineering School of Tunis
Relevant Coursework : Carbon Market , Circular Economy , Blockchain applied to energy,
Optimization, modeling and prospective evaluation for energy systems , Project management

2026

National Diploma in Engineering -Industrial Engineering
09/2024 – Present | Manar, Tunis
National engineering School of Tunis⁠
Relevant Coursework : Supply Chain Management, Operations Research, Stochastic Processes, Operations
Management, Data Simulation , ERP integrated course , Data Mining
Preparatory Cycle Diploma for Engineering Studies
(Physics-Chemistry)
Preparatory Institute for Engineering Studies of Monastir (IPEIM)⁠
Rank : 151/1230

09/2021 – 06/2024 | Monastir

High School Diploma in Experimental Sciences
Pioneer High School of Monastir

09/2019 – 06/2020 | Monastir

ACADEMIC PROJECTS
Green Port Decarbonization Hub & E-Methanol Production, Academic Project
2026
Designed a green methanol production hub to fuel Mediterranean cruise ships
Dimensioned a green hydrogen system using solar power, PEM electrolysis, and CO² hydrogenation
Planned direct port-side bunkering logistics to eliminate transport costs and meet EU emissions
standards.
•

•

•

Techno-Economic Feasibility Study of Advanced Energy Storage System, Academic Project
2024
Evaluated diverse storage technologies (Li-ion, thermal, and hydrogen) based on efficiency, lifecycle, and
levelized cost of storage (LCOS).
•

Final-Year Research Project (PFA2): Development of a Simulation Model for the Joint
2026
Optimization of Quality and Maintenance in Industrial Systems
• Developed a discrete-event simulation model using ARENA software to analyze the stochastic behavior of
industrial production lines.

• Integrated quality-maintenance coupling by implementing an X-bar control chart synchronized with
machine degradation states.
• Optimized maintenance strategies (preventive vs. corrective) to minimize the Total Expected Cost (TEC)
and maximize system availability

Final-Year Research Project (PFA1): Strategic Study – Innovation and Challenges in the
2025
Banking Sector
• Analyzed the impact of digital transformation and emerging financial models (Fintech) on traditional
banking.
• Developed a comprehensive understanding of risk management and investment trends in evolving
markets

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCES
Tunisian National Electricity and Gas Company (STEG)
07/2026 – Present | Sousse
Engineer Internship
System Sizing & Modeling: Sizing and modeling utility-scale Photovoltaic (PV) systems integrated with
Siemens Silyzer electrolyzers for green H² production.
Techno-Economic Optimization: Conducting energy yield simulations and dynamic load balancing to
maximize green hydrogen output and system efficiency.
Grid Integration Analysis: Assessing technical feasibility, multi-vector energy flows, and capacity limits for
coupling electrolysis with the national power grid.
•

•

•

Shadowing Internship – Impression & Teinture du Sahel (ITS)⁠
Maintenance Departement
• Used a Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) for maintenance operations.
• Collaborated with the company’s maintenance team on equipment servicing and upkeep

June 2025

Hotel AMIR PALACE⁠ , Operations & Quality Controller
07/2023 – 08/2023 | Monastir
• Conducted daily and monthly physical inventories to reconcile actual stock with digital records in the
"Économat" department.

TOOLS & CERTIFICATIONS
Tools: ARENA , Excel , Lingo , PVGIS , Python , SAP , CAO
Certifications: Renewable Power to X Basic Training ( International PtX Hub) , Lean Management , Injaz
Company , Negociation Technics

EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Industrial Engineering Club – ENIT, Senior Member
09/2024 – Present
• Attended conferences on ethics and professional conduct in engineering.
• Organized and participated in industrial site visits to analyze production lines and supply chains
ENIT Junior Enterprise, Active Member
09/2024 – 06/2025
•Business development and prospection: identified and negotiated industrial partnerships and conducted
market research.
•Implemented internal process standardization in compliance with JET standards to ensure quality
deliverables

LANGUAGES
English
TOEIC B2

French
DELF B2

Espagnol
Basic notions

Arabic
Native speaker

